What benefits are there for
macros over functions?
Honestly, it's mainly just
a matter of convenience.
Because they let you do more things
than functions do functions,
you give them the arguments, and
that's all they get to work with.
For example, in this print line call,
I'm giving it as many
different arguments as I want.
I always have to give it the string
literal that it's going to be
interpolating.
And then I can give it as many
different arguments as I want.
And at compile-time, rust is able to
turn these into other function calls.
Normally, as we will see later on
when we define our own functions,
when you define a rust function,
you have to fix the number of arguments.
You can't say this can take as
many arguments as you want, so
that's one of the things
that macros let you do.
There are some other more advanced things
that we won't get into in this course that
you can do with macros.
But I guess the short answer is that
macros are sort of strictly more powerful
than functions in every way except for
one.
Which is that a function
you're allowed to pass around,
you can have first-class
functions in rust.
You cannot pass macros around.
Because really what this exclamation point
is saying is at compile-time, the rust
compiler is going to take this whole
statement right here, this whole line and
break it down and run some code and
turn it into a series of function calls.
So you can't really pass that around
because that's not really a thing it's
just sort of like a way to let you
write something like syntax sugar at
compile-time.
>> Yeah, so are there performance
differences between macros versus
functions?
>> Great question.
Are there performance differences
between macros versus functions?
Yes at compile time but not at runtime.
So, because a macro is just going to at
compile time the term is expanded it gets
expanded into these
series of function calls.
It's no different than if you'd written
those function calls by hand as far as
runtime performance is concerned.
But because it has to do that
expansion work at compile time,
macros are one of the things that can
make your compile times longer in rust,
depending on the complexity of the macro
and how many you're using and so forth.
>> So using less macros would
make it compile faster.
>> All else being equal, yeah.
Using fewer macros would not
improve your compile times.
But to be honest, that's not
a common remediation macros tend to,
unless you're really using a lot of them,
they tend not to be the main culprit
in compile times, in my experience.
>> Questions around the point of
immutable variables I'm not sure
if you want to get into that or not.
>> I mean, the point of them is
essentially, it's just good programming
practice to default to immutability
because they're less error-prone.
If I didn't intend to
reassign this to x if
I thought okay, x is defined this way.
And if I have a whole big chunk of code
after this, I want to know whether or
not x might be changing anywhere in there.
And if I define it with let I can know,
yeah 100% confidence,
there's no chance that this was changed
because the compiler wouldn't have let me.
Whereas if I say let mut, I now have more
things to check because I can say, well,
hang on, x could have changed
at any point in these steps.
I need to sort of go audit that to try and
figure out what might have changed.
>> You've talked about rust
being a static language, right?
Because there's questions
around dynamic versus static.
>> So yeah, so rust is definitely
a static type check language.
There is a keyword called dyn, D-Y-N,
but it's relatively advanced use case,
and we're not going to get into
it in the course of this course.
But it doesn't really do what you
might guess based on the name if
you're thinking about it in
terms of static versus dynamic.
But yeah, like c plus plus or
Java, Rust is just a type-checked language
there's no runtime dynamic types.